12.04 | Life Is Strange
The Steam Autumn Sale Day expended me almost ￥150 for video games. But enjoyably, it let me opened the journey in "Life is Strange" game.
To All Of You - Syd Matters
Enjoy this piece of music, what if you have the power to turn back the time? You can always make up your fault at any time and any place.
The protagonist Max Caulfield, mysteriously disappeared for five years but eventually came back. She found she have the power to turn back time, then she set out to find out the reason why Rachel·Amber has disappeared with her best friend Chloe·Price.
"Life is Strange is a world, you`ll want to lose yourself in."
OK, with this music, let`s check out again by following two points according to:
In excellence-girls` BBS, I always increase community activities information timely. Of course this is not the BBS`s mainly purpose.In the past two weeks, I added three activities and freeCodeCamp`s organizer is me.
So, what method on earth we use to study not just limited in the front end of skills? Here is the way we use to learn the new knowledge.
On November 26th, I took part in a Learn Smart activities with my mentor. Focus on how to use JavaScript to code a space game in one day. The answer is use the way has just released above. Once you have a challenge to solve:
CreatShare Internet Laboratoryt say in there, but we had into five freshman students to learn Web technology. For convenience, I set up the CreatShare trello team for them to know our laboratory easily and can know what should they do in the next.
Trello is mysteriously just as ToDo-List, we can push some data resources in there and made plan in there. The latter characteristic is the Trello`s unique.
On November 11th, a magical Sunday, I organized a activity which I spent a week planned for, focus on the Web technology and make friends.
Hope for the next freeCodeCamp-XiAn travel~
After my subscription`s initial propaganda, the growth of the two past weeks just increase less than 10 people. But as i said:
Recently, I just focus on my output and personal growth before considering the programmer`s self marketing~
I have no time to write chicken-soup article, so the subscription`s data did not have to much growth. Let`s see it all.